docs/accessories/developer/itemstack_components.md, before:

---
title: ItemStack Data Components
project: accessories
---

## General

Below is the current set of available Data Components for ItemStacks that are supported with documentation about their function and format.

### Attribute Modifiers

Any ItemStack can have Attributes added onto such through the `accessories:attributes` item component with such being comprised of a list of attribute entries similar to Minecraft's default implementation. Below is an example of such:

```JSON
{
    "accessories:attributes": {
        "modifiers": [
            {
                "type": "minecraft:attack_damage",
                "id": "example:increased_damage_boost",
                "amount": 1,
                "operation": "add_value",
                "slot_name": "hat",
                "is_stackable": false,
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

| <div style="width:118px">Field</div> | Usage |
|--|--|
|`"type"`| Refers to the attribute type that should be adjusted with the given modifier data either registered or a slot attribute. |
|`"id"`| The unique resource location to identify this modifier |
|`"amount"`| The amount of change from the modifier |
|`"operation"`| The type of calculation operation that should be performed out of the valid values. |
|`"slot_name"`| The slot to which the accessory must be equipped for the effect to apply. `"any"` can be used to allow for the attribute to be applied to whatever slot the given item can be equipped into. |
|`"is_stackable"`| Indicates that the given `"id"` passed should be appended with slot information to allow for additional copies of the attribute to function together as a compounding effect |

### Slot Validation

Any ItemStack can define invalid or valid slots to which it can be equipped using the `accessories:slot_validation` item component allowing you to add the ability to equip the accessory within a slot or override current equipability for an existing accessory.

```JSON
{
    "accessories:slot_validation": {
        "valid_slot": [
            "hat"
        ]
        "invalid_slot": [
            "shoes"
        ]
    }
}
```

| <div style="width:118px">Field</div> | Usage |
|--|--|
|`"valid_slots"`| An array of string values of valid slots that such stack can be equipped into when attempted |
|`"invalid_slots"`| An array of string values of invalid slots that such stack **can not** be equipped into when attempted |

### Stack Size

To adjust the data-driven components ability to stack, you can use this component to either use the stacks max size or use a overridden size instead but such size needs to be less than the stack size or that will be used instead.

```JSON
{
    "accessories:stack_size": {
        "use_stack_size": false,
        "size_override": 69
    }
}
```

| <div style="width:118px">Field</div> | Usage |
|--|--|
|`"use_stack_size"`| Use the stack's given max size as the amount allowed to stack to within Accessories |
|`"size_override"`| The amount that the size should be overridden to instead of stack size |

### Accessory Nest

Accessories has a system to allow for nesting an Accessory within another Accessory which can only be used within code or by creating a ItemStack with the given Nest component. 

```JSON
{
    "accessories:nested_accessories": {
        "accessories": [
            {
                "id": "minecraft:diamond",
                "count": 1,
                "components": {
                    "accessories:attributes": {
                        "modifiers": [
                            {
                                "type": "minecraft:attack_damage",
                                "id": "example:increased_damage_boost",
                                "amount": 1,
                                "operation": "add_value",
                                "slot_name": "any",
                                "is_stackable": false,
                            }
                        ]
                    }
                }
            }
            {
                "id": "minecraft:emerald",
                "count": 1,
                "components": {
                    "accessories:attributes": {
                        "modifiers": [
                            {
                                "type": "minecraft:attack_speed",
                                "id": "example:increased_damage_speed",
                                "amount": 1,
                                "operation": "add_value",
                                "slot_name": "any",
                                "is_stackable": false,
                            }
                        ]
                    }
                }
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

| <div style="width:118px">Field</div> | Usage |
|--|--|
|`"accessories"`| A list of `ItemStack`s that have various components and will be used to get Accessory info from when equipping the nest |

!!! warning "Nest Equitability"
    You will either need to add the Slot Validation component to the nest or add the given item that the nest is made from to the given tag for the slot using the Tag Predicate for equipping

## Rendering

Below are the various components to adjust certain rendering aspects of Accessories.

### Rendering Override

Any ItemStack can have a component called `accessories:render_override` that allows for an item to have its render use the default variant if desired as it's funny... that's it

```JSON
{
    "accessories:render_override": {
        "default_render_override": false,
        "armor_render_override": true
    }
}
```

| <div style="width:118px">Field</div> | Usage |
|--|--|
|`"default_render_override"`| An optional boolean value indicating if present that the default render should be used |
|`"armor_render_override"`| An optional boolean value indicating if present that the armor render should be used |

### Rendering Transformations

For any Accessory that uses the Default renderer it is possible to use the provided Rendering Transforms component to adjust the positioning, rotation, and scale of the rendering to for instance wear a block as a hat or place a item on your arm. 

```JSON
{
    "accessories:render_transformations": {
        "disable_default_translations": true,
        "transformations": [
            {
                "type": "translation",
                "value": [-25, 0, 5]
            },
            {
                "type": "axis_rotation",
                "value": {
                    "angle": 90,
                    "axis": [1, 0, 1],
                }
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

#### Transformations

=== "Translation"

    Translates the given rendering position based on the provided offset `Vector`.

    ```JSON
    {
        {
            "type": "translation",
            "value": [-25, 0, 5]
        }
    }
    ```

    The `"value"` would be a vector of the offset being in the `x`, `y`, and `z` format.

=== "Raw Rotation"

    Rotates the given rendering based on the given `Quarternion` provided.

    ```JSON
    {
        {
            "type": "raw_rotation",
            "value": [-0.323, 0.111, 0, 0.1232]
        }
    }
    ```

    The `"value"` would be a vector of the rotation being in the `x`, `y`, `z`, and `w` format.

=== "Axis Rotation"

    Rotates the given rendering based on `Angle` (In Degrees) and `Axis` vector to rotate around.

    ```JSON
    {
        {
            "type": "axis_rotation",
            "value": {
                "angle": 90,
                "axis": [1, 0, 1],
            }
        }
    }
    ```

    The `"value"` would be a structured format with a `Angle` (In **Degrees**) and an `Axis` vector in the `x`, `y`, and `z` format.

=== "Scale"

    Scales the size of the rendering based on the given scale `Vector`.

    ```JSON
    {
        {
            "type": "scale",
            "value": [-25, 0, 5]
        }
    }
    ```

    The `"value"` would be a vector of the offset being in the `x`, `y`, and `z` format.

=== "Transform To"

    Transforms the Rendering to the targeted `ModelPart` name based on the raw positioning `Vector` or specific `Side` of the part.

    ```JSON
    {
        {
            "type": "axis_rotation",
            "value": {
                "model_part": "head",
                "raw_normal": [1, 1, 1],
            }
        }
    }
    ```

    The `"value"` will require a `ModelPart` in string format and either the positioning (`"raw_normal"`) `Vector` as discussed within [Rendering API](./rendering_api.md#transformation-methods) or a specific `Side` (`"side"`) to translate the rendering to for the given part.

=== "Matrix"

    Applies a precomputed matrix to transform the renderer.

    ```JSON
    {
        {
            "type": "axis_rotation",
            "value": [
                0.99985, -0.01745, 0.00030, 1.00000,  
                0.01745, 0.99970, -0.01745, 1.00000, 
                -0.00000, 0.01745, 0.99985, 1.00000,
                0.00000, 0.00000, 0.00000, 1.00000
            ]
        }
    }
    ```

    The `"value"` will be a list 16 long representing a 4x4 grid of values making the `Matrix`.

Commit message:

Apply Noaaan's suggestions from code review
Co-authored-by: Noaaan <noaaan@hotmail.com>

docs/accessories/developer/itemstack_components.md, after:

---
title: ItemStack Data Components
project: accessories
---

## General

Below is the current set of available Data Components for ItemStacks that are supported with documentation about their function and format.

### Attribute Modifiers

Any ItemStack can have Attributes added onto it with the `accessories:attributes` Item Component. It is composed from a list of attribute entries similar to Minecraft's default implementation. Below is an example:

```JSON
{
    "accessories:attributes": {
        "modifiers": [
            {
                "type": "minecraft:attack_damage",
                "id": "example:increased_damage_boost",
                "amount": 1,
                "operation": "add_value",
                "slot_name": "hat",
                "is_stackable": false,
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

| <div style="width:118px">Field</div> | Usage |
|--|--|
|`"type"`| Refers to the attribute type that should be adjusted with the given modifier data either registered or a slot attribute. |
|`"id"`| The unique resource location to identify this modifier |
|`"amount"`| The amount of change from the modifier |
|`"operation"`| The type of calculation operation that should be performed out of the valid values. |
|`"slot_name"`| The slot to which the accessory must be equipped for the effect to apply. `"any"` can be used to allow for the attribute to be applied to whatever slot the given item can be equipped into. |
|`"is_stackable"`| Indicates that the given `"id"` passed should be appended with slot information to allow for additional copies of the attribute to function together as a compounding effect |

### Slot Validation

Any ItemStack can define invalid or valid slots to which it can be equipped to using the `accessories:slot_validation` Item Component. Using it allows you to add to or override the equipability for an existing Accessory.

```JSON
{
    "accessories:slot_validation": {
        "valid_slot": [
            "hat"
        ]
        "invalid_slot": [
            "shoes"
        ]
    }
}
```

| <div style="width:118px">Field</div> | Usage |
|--|--|
|`"valid_slots"`| An array of string values of valid slots that the stack can be equipped into |
|`"invalid_slots"`| An array of string values of invalid slots that the stack **can not** be equipped into |

### Stack Size

To adjust the data-driven components ability to stack, you can use this component to either use the stacks max size or use a overridden size instead but such size needs to be less than the stack size or that will be used instead.

```JSON
{
    "accessories:stack_size": {
        "use_stack_size": false,
        "size_override": 69
    }
}
```

| <div style="width:118px">Field</div> | Usage |
|--|--|
|`"use_stack_size"`| Use the stack's given max size as the amount allowed to stack to within Accessories |
|`"size_override"`| The amount that the size should be overridden to instead of stack size |

### Accessory Nest

Accessories has a system that allows for nesting an Accessory within another Accessory. This can only be done explicitly with the API (code), or when creating a new ItemStack that has the `nested_accessories` Data Component. Example: 

```JSON
{
    "accessories:nested_accessories": {
        "accessories": [
            {
                "id": "minecraft:diamond",
                "count": 1,
                "components": {
                    "accessories:attributes": {
                        "modifiers": [
                            {
                                "type": "minecraft:attack_damage",
                                "id": "example:increased_damage_boost",
                                "amount": 1,
                                "operation": "add_value",
                                "slot_name": "any",
                                "is_stackable": false,
                            }
                        ]
                    }
                }
            }
            {
                "id": "minecraft:emerald",
                "count": 1,
                "components": {
                    "accessories:attributes": {
                        "modifiers": [
                            {
                                "type": "minecraft:attack_speed",
                                "id": "example:increased_damage_speed",
                                "amount": 1,
                                "operation": "add_value",
                                "slot_name": "any",
                                "is_stackable": false,
                            }
                        ]
                    }
                }
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

| <div style="width:118px">Field</div> | Usage |
|--|--|
|`"accessories"`| A list of `ItemStack`s that have various components and will be used to get Accessory info from when equipping the nest |

!!! warning "Nest Equitability"
    You will either need to add the Slot Validation component to the nest or add the given item that the nest is made from to the given tag for the slot using the Tag Predicate for equipping

## Rendering

This section covers the various components you can use to adjust certain rendering aspects of Accessories.

### Rendering Override

Any ItemStack can have a component called `accessories:render_override` that allows for an item to have its render use the default variant if desired as it's funny... that's it

```JSON
{
    "accessories:render_override": {
        "default_render_override": false,
        "armor_render_override": true
    }
}
```

| <div style="width:118px">Field</div> | Usage |
|--|--|
|`"default_render_override"`| An optional boolean value indicating if present that the default render should be used |
|`"armor_render_override"`| An optional boolean value indicating if present that the armor render should be used |

### Rendering Transformations

For any Accessory that uses the default renderer: It is possible to use the `render_transformations` data component to adjust the positioning, rotation, and scale of the rendering. Some examples are wearing a block as a hat, or placing an item on your arm. 

```JSON
{
    "accessories:render_transformations": {
        "disable_default_translations": true,
        "transformations": [
            {
                "type": "translation",
                "value": [-25, 0, 5]
            },
            {
                "type": "axis_rotation",
                "value": {
                    "angle": 90,
                    "axis": [1, 0, 1],
                }
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

#### Transformations

=== "Translation"

    Translates the given rendering position based on the provided offset `Vector`.

    ```JSON
    {
        {
            "type": "translation",
            "value": [-25, 0, 5]
        }
    }
    ```

    The `"value"` should be a vector with the offset being in the `x`, `y`, and `z` format.

=== "Raw Rotation"

    Rotates the given rendering based on the given `Quarternion` provided.

    ```JSON
    {
        {
            "type": "raw_rotation",
            "value": [-0.323, 0.111, 0, 0.1232]
        }
    }
    ```

    The `"value"` should be a vector with the rotation being in the `x`, `y`, `z`, and `w` format.

=== "Axis Rotation"

    Rotates the given rendering based on `Angle` (In Degrees) and `Axis` vector to rotate around.

    ```JSON
    {
        {
            "type": "axis_rotation",
            "value": {
                "angle": 90,
                "axis": [1, 0, 1],
            }
        }
    }
    ```

    The `"value"` needs to be in the structured format with an `Angle` in **Degrees**, and an `Axis` vector in the `x`, `y`, and `z` format.

=== "Scale"

    Scales the size of the rendering based on the given scale `Vector`.

    ```JSON
    {
        {
            "type": "scale",
            "value": [-25, 0, 5]
        }
    }
    ```

    The `"value"` should be a vector with the offset being in the `x`, `y`, and `z` format.

=== "Transform To"

    Transforms the Rendering to the targeted `ModelPart` name based on the raw positioning `Vector` or specific `Side` of the part.

    ```JSON
    {
        {
            "type": "axis_rotation",
            "value": {
                "model_part": "head",
                "raw_normal": [1, 1, 1],
            }
        }
    }
    ```

    The `"value"` requires a `ModelPart` in string format and either the positioning (`"raw_normal"`) `Vector` as discussed within [Rendering API](./rendering_api.md#transformation-methods) or a specific `Side` (`"side"`) to translate the rendering to for the given part.

=== "Matrix"

    Applies a precomputed matrix to transform the renderer.

    ```JSON
    {
        {
            "type": "axis_rotation",
            "value": [
                0.99985, -0.01745, 0.00030, 1.00000,  
                0.01745, 0.99970, -0.01745, 1.00000, 
                -0.00000, 0.01745, 0.99985, 1.00000,
                0.00000, 0.00000, 0.00000, 1.00000
            ]
        }
    }
    ```

    The `"value"` is a list of 16 doubles, representing the values of a 4x4 grid `Matrix`.
